in this video I am going to share five
speaking mistakes that I want you to
avoid which are very common and some of
these examples are going to have to do
with public speaking as in giving an
actual speech some of these examples are
going to be more related to one-on-one
conversations those everyday
conversations we have and some of these
examples are even related to emails or
texting so let's jump right into them
the first tip I want you to avoid
especially when it comes to public
speaking is using filler words there are
these filler words that creep into our
speeches so often this is something
that's incredibly common and they are
words or sounds like um er uh but like
so and they all of these things that are
replacing the silence whereas if it was
silence instead of those words or noises
it would be much more impactful and the
reason we use these filler or these
crutch words is that as speakers it can
be incredibly uncomfortable to allow
silence to happen it is in fact a skill
to be able to be comfortable with that
silence but for many people especially
new speakers it's a very uncomfortable
feeling so instead they start filling
all of these spaces with those crutch
words but um um if uh if you think about
it um it's uh it's like it's pretty um
distracting uh for the audience um when
uh when there's all of um these words
that are um filling the spaces where
silence would be more enjoyable to
listen to it can actually be quite
distracting for the audience my
challenge to you is to try to identify
what filler words you are probably
already naturally using and do your best
to eliminate those as much as possible
from your speech those of you who attend
Toast Masters know that many
Toastmasters meetings have an awe
counter that is a person specifically in
charge of listening and keeping an ear
out for other members using those words
but there are other ways to track this
as well if you record yourself giving a
speech you can watch back and notice
those filler words there's also apps
there's an app I love called SPO where
you can practice your speeches and it
will tell you which filler words you are
using so there are many ways to identify
this but the first thing to avoid is
using filler words when speaking the
second thing to avoid when speaking and
this relates to the Daily conversations
that we're having it also relates to
public speaking but more so those
everyday
conversations and even emails even text
messages and that is avoid using
qualifiers or words such as just these
qualifiers and other words like this
like just in particular take away from
what it is that we're saying as an
example this is just my opinion but and
then they will say whatever their
opinion is all that qualifier is doing
is watering down your message it's
taking away from the emphasis of what
you had to say so if your opinion is
that your company needs to renovate the
boardroom and you say this is just my
opinion but I think we should spend some
of the company funds to renovate the
boardroom why not remove that first half
and simply say I think we need to use
the company funds to renovate the
boardroom all of a sudden that is a more
powerful statement you're not taking
away you're not discounting your own
opinion I see so many examp examp of
this especially in email people throw in
the word just a lot just a thought but
they qualify before they say the thing
that they want to say my challenge to
you eliminate those qualifiers as much
as possible don't soften or water down
your language allow your opinion to
resonate and say it with confidence the
third speaking mistake to avoid and this
one is back to the public speaking theme
is do do not wing it we have
romanticized this idea of spontaneously
delivering a speech with no practice at
all and we have this idea that most of
us should just be able to do that with
no issues but the reality is the vast
vast majority of people need to practice
their speaking skills they also need to
practice their speeches and sure there
is those unicorn humans out there who
can go and deliver
something off the cuff and often they do
a good job but that is the vast minority
of people the majority could use
practice they could really have a
stronger more impactful speech if they
did practice it so I want you to avoid
this idea that you can just show up and
simply deliver the presentation
perfectly instead practice what it is
you're going to say build out the speech
structure go over it multiple times
visualize yourself giving the
presentation well and I promise you it
will go better than if you had simply
showing up day of the event and try to
wing it avoid winging speeches the
fourth speaking mistake to avoid
sticking on the public speaking theme is
to avoid writing out speeches word for
word the knee-jerk reaction for many new
speakers is to write out their entire
speech verbatim every single word and
every single sentence but there's a
problem with this the more we build out
something completely every single word
and practice by reading off of that
piece of paper we're committing to every
single word that's written down and the
reality is when we read something off of
a sheet of paper and we're looking at
those words and we're reading it
verbatim it takes away so many things
from the public speaking experience and
the skill set you can bring to the stage
things like vocal variety the ability to
increase your voice and decrease your
voice when you're reading every word we
get that monotone effect and it's not as
engaging but the second thing it takes
away is the ability to really utilize
body language to tell the story with our
hands and with our eyes and with our
facial expressions when we're simply
reading off of a piece of paper
our eyes are focused on that paper and
it's limiting it's not going to be an
engaging speech instead of building out
your speech word for word I suggest that
you build it into sections you have your
introduction which is something you
should commit to memory that's the first
line or two of your speech and then
various chunks so if it's tips you're
giving five tips for avoiding speaking
mistakes as this YouTube video is about
I would have tip one one and I would
have the description eliminate filler
words then I would have tip two and a
little description to trigger my memory
eliminate
qualifiers and so on and by having these
words written down and maybe a couple
other keywords that will trigger our
memory we can quickly glance at our
notes if we're using notes and we don't
have to read anything we simply see okay
we're on to tip two and then we can
begin presenting another another way to
avoid this is to build a PowerPoint or a
visual presentation and allow the images
to trigger our memory again not writing
down a full speech on those PowerPoint
slides instead having a photo that
represents what we're going to talk
about and then practice our speech
without reading anything by simply
looking at the visual and then in a
somewhat practiced somewhat impromptu
way speaking to whatever that slide or
visual is I want you to avoid writing
down every single word of your speech
and reading that verbatim because the
reality is you will never be an
impactful speaker if that is your full
approach the final speaking mistake to
avoid is making it all about yourself
and this applies to all forms of
communication whether you're giving a
formal speech or whether you're talking
to somebody else or whether you're
delivering an email really think about
the other person so if we think about
first and foremost the everyday
conversations that we're
having ask that person about their
experience about their day seek to learn
more about what it is that they are
doing or telling you before we start to
tell our own story and conversations are
this beautiful flow it's like a game of
tennis where you hit the ball back and
forth and you both share experiences
but what I'm suggesting is when the ball
is in the other person's Court allow it
to stay there for a minute and ask them
followup questions and really try to
learn more about their experience don't
make it all about yourself maybe you've
had that situation where you're speaking
to someone and every story you have they
have a story to match it or maybe a
story to one up your story and those
aren't enjoyable conversations but this
tip also is relevant for formal speeches
or any sort of public speaking
opportunity don't make it all about
yourself sure you're going to tell
personal stories you're going to
probably give a lot of examples that
have been relatable to you but think
about who your audience is are you
speaking to a room of business owners
try to use business examples that they
can tap into that is relevant to what
they do or maybe it's a wedding that
you're speaking at really make it about
the couple that is getting married and
focus on them or think about the guest
experience or something that they've
gone through how can you talk about
something that will be relatable for all
of them always have your audience in
mind whether it's a one-on-one
conversation or a speech from the stage
I hope this video on speaking mistakes
to avoid has been helpful if it was let
me know in the comments and if you have
not already already subscribed to my
Channel please ensure that you do that
my goal is to make a lot of great video
content that will help you become a more
impactful communicator and a better more
confident public speaker thanks so much
for watching this video